---
layout: post
title: "Quarantine reflections"
description: "Some realizations about myself, revealed to myself, through all this time spend with myself."
thumb_image: "documentation/sample-image.jpg"
tags: [thoughts]
---

It has been almost a month since the Bay Area shelter-in-place order has been issued, and I've been at home for the most part.

I've spent a lot of time reflecting and doing some personal writing. It's truly been insightful and I'm very thankful I have the time to pause and really take a look at myself, where I am, and where I'm headed. To give some context to my situation: I am quarantined in my Oakland apartment with two roommates (although one just came back from spending time with her family nearby).

Here are some things I've learned from all the time I've spent with myself:

1. **I love how much time I have for myself now.** I seem to have more motivation to do things when I have a set routine and time spent being alone. Seeing how much I have been able to do in this time has really been an eye-opener for me, and simultaneously has taught me how much I should value and guard my time.
This is what a typical day for me looks like:
* Wake up between 6-7am, have a coffee and read a book
* Exercise and shower (~1 hour total)
* Work on my senior project till lunch, around 11:30am-12pm. No online messaging before this.
* Have lunch, then do more work, read, draw, journal, or do another hobby (more relaxed state of productivity)
* Have dinner, "
* Go to bed around 10-10:30pm, usually with a 10 minute meditation session beforehand.

2. Limiting my social interactions (both physically due to quarantine, and online through my routine) allowed me to realize that I don't need to worry about constantly staying in touch with friends - or rather, worry that I will lose what I value in my relationships if I am not constantly in contact. In regards to my fear of losing people close to me: **what exactly am I losing, if the foundation my relationships are built upon is of me giving too much of myself?**

3. Going off #2, I find myself also being much more present when I do spend time with my friends - I feel less pressure that I am socializing instead of "being productive", because I actually designate much more time in my day to be productive. That being said, **being more intentional with my time overall has greatly improved my presence in anything I'm doing** (although it's definitely still a work in progress!).

4. **Acknowledging the good things and the silver linings truly makes a difference in difficult times**. It's really important to recognize what I have. I was feeling quite low a few days back, and after writing down my gratitudes, I felt physically so much better. A few things I am grateful for:
- That I am well, both physically, mentally, and resource-wise
- That my loving family is safe, back home in Canada
- That I have very caring friends who check in on me and who I regularly have conversations with
- That I have a wonderful and supportive boyfriend - his amazingness has really been able to shine more visibly in dark times
- That I am able to do the things I love and stay very motivated
- That I was able to secure a job as an international student during a pandemic
- That I'm learning all these things about myself and can focus on personal growth
One of my core beliefs is that nothing is ever black and white. One example I can give is that my boyfriend had to go back to Canada abruptly when the shelter-in-place order was issued - no one was expecting how fast things were changing. It was upsetting because we had plans to spend more time together (in fact we cancelled a weekend trip too), and I don't know exactly when I'll be seeing him next. But our long-distance has brought forth very beautiful moments. For example, this morning we had a virtual yoga and reading session together. It was such a precious moment - I wouldn't have known moments like these could exist if COVID hadn't hit; that we are able to overcome difficult situations, find alternative ways of spending time together, and still be truly happy.


5. **I can't control the world around me, but I can control how I respond to it.** I am currently reading *Meditations* by Marcus Aurelius (I highly, highly recommend this to anyone, especially when they are feeling a lot of distress - this was the exact recommendation given by my highschool history professor, and I couldn't agree more). One of the sentences that really stood out to me is:
> The Universe is change, life is opinion.

I think this quote is so relevant to the current situation. We are suffering collectively from this virus; but on an individual level, we can take actions to do the best we can, even if we aren't our best selves. Creating a routine, taking time to reflect, focusing on hobbies or learning a new skill... Something small that I did and saw drastic change in my mental wellbeing is to limit how often I look at news.

I still have much more to uncover about myself. I look forward to more solitude and reflecting!