---
layout: post
title: "Balance in friendships"
description: "Reflections and conversations on how my friendships are involved in my life."
thumb_image: "documentation/sample-image.jpg"
tags: [thoughts, conversations]
---

Lately, I've been thinking a lot about finding balance in my friendships, especially the close ones. It's an area in which I'd like to bring more clarity to myself.

From a recent discussion with a very good friend, I realized that most (if not all) of my closest friendships in college have been a result of the other party initiating the majority of our interactions. I am fairly introverted - while I love people and often appear as warm and sociable to others, I definitely need time to be on my own and recharge. In fact, I'd consider my default state of being is alone, rather than having the company of others.

That being said, there are times in life when I am more sociable, and times when I am less. I have experienced friction in my close friendships when I become more withdrawn. As I mentioned in my first post, I am working on is being emotionally honest and communicative to the people I care about - and sometimes, this include saying no or asking for space. While I am actively working on this, it is still difficult for me to bring up such proposals. I've also started understanding the reasons I may feel less inclined to engage, whether with a specific person or with people as a whole. These are purely objective observations and are not meant to be seen as "good" or "bad":
* Work and commitments can get busy and stressful - e.g. classes, schoolwork (UX design often involves a lot of social interaction for research, user-testing), other commitments
* Amount of social engagements increase - e.g. more events, meeting with more friends
* Heavy emotional reliance, me investing a lot of my time and energy in supporting someone
* I don't care about what the other person is saying - e.g. gossiping about other people (especially people I don't know), constantly talking about themselves
* When I start feeling used like a diary or dumping/venting space

The frictions from my friendships that I have observed bring up this question for me:
**What is a healthy amount of interaction and dependency on friends? On the spectrum of minimal to excessive, is there a standard? Or is it purely subjective, based on what either side wants?**

Rather than thinking about a certain level of dependency as "good" or "bad", I've been thinking more about determining things through the lens of "action → consequence". To do this, it's important to determine your values and priorities. For me:
* **I want to be content on my own and self-fulfilling**; while I definitely value and cherish my friendships, I don't want all my happiness to be derived from other people, and I wish the same for my friends. I believe this is the healthiest way of having friendships.
* **People are one of the top three priorities of my life**, alongside personal growth and makign positive impact (work). It wasn't always this way - I used to believe that myself and my career should never be sacrificed for other people, but over the recent years, I realized that people truly matter a lot.
* **I want to be there for my friends** - for the important events, for when they are hitting lows in life, and also just for good company.
* **I want to make sure I'm taking care of myself** - I'm simply unable to be a good friend when I'm not in a good place (learned through experience).

I think assessing my friendships using these priorities would be very valuable in determining what to do - in other words, does the time and energy I put into a friendship align with them? What about the other side?


I decided to ask some friends for their perspectives and experiences. These are some wonderful insights I got:
* In the end, friendships are just about being happy together and enjoying the moment.
* An approach to finding a solution: How much closer do I want to get with the other person? How much closer does the other person want to get with me? Is there a gap between these two?
* People are drawn to others who make them feel good.
* "Asynchronous" (on my own time) vs "synchronous" (real-time) texting - which does either side prefer and expect from the other? (I am definitely more of an asynchronous texter.)


This topic is still a thought in progress, but I think I've laid down what I have so far. I'd like to learn more from others about this, so I do intend to update this list of insights, should I stumble across any new ones. But for now, I feel much better that I have a clearer understanding for the reasons behind the issues I've experienced, and what I can do, moving forward.