---
layout: post
title: "A space for sharing"
description: "I've decided to create a place for expressing myself through writing!"
thumb_image: "documentation/sample-image.jpg"
tags: [web, post]
---
Starting a blog is something I've been planning on doing for quite some time now, and I'm happy to say that it's finally come true!

Know that pressure of putting a mark down on the first page of a new sketchbook that leads to avoiding starting at all?
I'm going to avoid that by rambling and not trying to make it sound perfect. I'll use this post to talk about my purposes and goals for starting a blog.

Since I'm already talking about it (and it's in the post description), I can start by clarifying that I intend for this to be a meaningful and reflective
space to express my thoughts and ideas in a way that can be shared with any people willing to read.
While I want to be writing regularly and have accountability, I don't intend for this to be a demanding, pressuring task that will make things unenjoyable.
If I have things I want to share, I will make sure that I find time to sit down and write - and if I'm really not in the mood to write, I won't force myself either.

I've kept a personal journal on and off throughout most of my life, and while I really appreciate being able to write privately and intend to continue doing so, I think I'm at a point in my life where I feel comfortable and confident enough to start sharing my thoughts, experiences, learnings, anything that I feel would be nice for others to read.
As for what sort of content, I will be flexible in what I want to share. I have plenty of very insightful conversations with the people close to me, and the learnings I get are a major eason why I wanted to start a blog. Self reflection and growth are also areas that I want to think about and share. One of my larger, long term goals is to **be more emotionally open and vulnerable with both myself and others**, and I think a blog is a great medium to practice this.

In terms of my technical writing goals, I think that having a place to actively write is a big goal - after all, it is like a muscle that needs regular exercising.
Now that I am in my last semester at CCA l with only two classes, with neither of them being humanities and science, I think it's extra important to make sure that I'm writing regularly. I'm still doing academic coaching so I'm often involved in the writing progress, but I want to ensure that my own practice is also being nurtured. Speaking of academic coaching, my Learning Resource Center supervisor Brooke recently began a mentorship program for coaches with the goal of helping us grow as both coaches and writers, and after our first meeting together, I thought this would be a wonderful opportunity to focus on myself as a writer. Brooke is also maintaining a blog right now: <a href="https://mind-body-story.com/">mind-body-story</a>, and we both agreed that this mentorship program would be a great way to support each other in our growth as writers. I feel really good about starting a blog with this support!

Finally, another skill (that is more secondary) I would like to work on through this blog is coding! I set this up using <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a>, an open-source site generator that can be hosted on Github. It's a great way to learn how to play around with HTML and CSS without having to start from scratch - I'm really glad to be learning the coding aspects while also using it as a means to starting a blog.